Add Community Relations to Product & Services (#1076)
2i2c-org/team-compass: product-and-services/community-relations.md

# Community Relations

> 2i2c’s differentiator is the combination of our technical expertise along with social knowledge across both science and education communities, as well as open source communities. We call the social side of that work _Community Relations_, which is focused on growing members’ collective impact. Community Relations is a collection of processes and services provided by the Product & Services team; it's not a separate team.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of 2i2c's key differentiators is how we combine our technical expertise with social knowledge across science, education and open source communities. We call the social side of that work _Community Relations_, which is focused on growing members’ collective impact. Community Relations is a collection of processes and services provided by the Product & Services team.  
```

## Elements of Community Relations
There are four key elements of Community Relations, all supporting member communities' collective impact through our shared infrastructure.Our core infrastructure service is a reliable, functional part of science and education community building. The technical aspects of our service delivery are documented in our services and infrastructure docs. Community Relations work supports communities' use of our core service.  

Today (early 2026) many of these elements are more ad hoc than we would like, which makes it challenging for communities to engage with us and with each other. We'll be building and refining Community Relations throughout 2026; early thoughts are captured in our [services strategy](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1djix1YrzMRxc7rketJLXgl-R3g8kplljPPCbWIMmh0o/edit?tab=t.ktsf3e28gj1x#heading=h.eldsuysfzza2_).

### Community Experience & Enablement  

> This element focuses on the product itself. How good is the documentation? How quickly can a community get from "zero" to "hello world"? They advocate for all 2i2c member communities back to the product team. Part of how we do this today is via hands-on work in support of communities, so this overlaps significantly with service delivery (onboarding, community enablement, offboarding).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This element focuses on the product itself, and on the ways we support its adoption and use by our member communities. How good is our community-facing documentation? How quickly can a community get from "zero" to "hello world"? Community Experience and Enablement are practices that advocate for all 2i2c member communities back to the product team. Part of how we do this today is via hands-on work in support of communities, so this overlaps significantly with service delivery (onboarding, community enablement, offboarding).
```

> - Welcoming new communities and helping them navigate the service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elements of Community Experience and Enablement include:
- Welcoming new communities and helping them navigate the service
```
